6125 Emergency Medical Specialist - EMT (FIRE) Just a friendly reminder: the translation may not be perfectly accurate. We recommend giving it a quick review. Thank you! ZOHRAN KWAME MAMDANI Mayor DEPARTMENT OF CITYWIDE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES BUREAU OF EXAMINATIONS YUME KITASEI Commissioner NOTICE OF EXAMINATION Emergency Medical Specialist - EMT (FIRE) Exam No. 6125 When To Apply: From: June 15, 2026 To: August 7, 2026 Application Fee: $30.00 Candidates paying the application fee with a credit, debit, or gift card will incur a nonrefundable 2.00% service fee. However, veterans, unemployed individuals, and those receiving public assistance or supplementary security income qualify for a fee waiver. YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR READING THIS ENTIRE NOTICE BEFORE YOU SUBMIT YOUR APPLICATION. WHAT THE JOB INVOLVES: Emergency Medical Specialists - EMTs, under general supervision, perform tasks such as the following: provide timely, professional, pre-hospital emergency medical care/Basic Life Support (BLS) to anyone who requests/requires it; provide transportation to the appropriate medical facility; operate department vehicles; receive, prioritize and dispatch calls for emergency medical assistance; and provide patient care under the authorization of the Medical Director. All work is performed in accordance with FDNY policies and procedures and as legislatively prescribed in the requisite curriculum and allowed by Federal/New York State/Regional BLS Protocols and in accordance with the level of training, New York State designated scope of practice and New York State and Regional BLS Protocols. Emergency Medical Specialists - EMTs also prepare and submit reports as required and may be assigned to work in any FDNY facility, as needed. All Emergency Medical Specialists - EMTs perform related work. Special Working Conditions: Emergency Medical Specialists - EMTs may be required to work various shifts including nights, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays. Some of the physical activities performed by Emergency Medical Specialists - EMTs and environmental conditions experienced are: working outdoors in all kinds of weather; climbing stairs; using such devices as stair chair or ambulance stretcher; treating patients who may have infectious and communicable diseases; working for extended periods during the day or night in ambulances; driving an ambulance in all kinds of weather; working in confined spaces such as under vehicles, trains, and buildings; working at hazardous material scenes such as a chemical spill or an industrial fire or accident; treating patients at heights such as rooftops, bridges or elevated highways; and reading a Mobile Data Terminal for call information and instructions in varying light conditions. (This is a brief description of what you might do in this position and does not include all the duties of this position.) THE SALARY: The current minimum salary is $39,386 per annum. This rate is subject to change. HOW TO QUALIFY: It is your responsibility to ensure that you meet the education and experience requirements for the examination before submitting your application. If you are deemed "Not Qualified," your application fee will not be refunded and you will not receive a score. As per Section 54(2) of the Civil Service Law, the education requirement needed to qualify must be met by August 7, 2027. The certification requirement needed to qualify must be met by February 28, 2027 . EDUCATION AND CERTIFICATE REQUIREMENTS: A four-year high school diploma or its educational equivalent; and a valid NYS Department of Health EMT - Basic Certification; or a valid NYS Department of Health EMT - Paramedic Certification. The high school diploma or its educational equivalent must be approved by a State's Department of Education or a recognized accrediting organization. If you were educated outside the United States, you must have your foreign education evaluated to determine its equivalence to education obtained in the United States. This is required only if you need credit for your foreign education in this examination. For more information see the Foreign Education Evaluation Guide in the Required Information section. You must also possess the above certificate(s) at the time of your appointment, and they must be maintained for the duration of your employment. You must Final Submit your Education and Experience Exam in OASys by midnight Eastern time on the last day of the Application Period, and once you Final Submit, no changes can be made. Failure to click Final Submit by the deadline will result in an incomplete application, and you will not receive a score or a refund of the application fee. REQUIREMENTS TO BE APPOINTED: Certificate Requirements: As stated in the “HOW TO QUALIFY” section, you must possess a valid NYS Department of Health EMT - Basic Certification or a valid NYS Department of Health EMT - Paramedic Certification by the end of the application period. You must also possess a valid NYS Department of Health EMT - Basic Certification or a valid NYS Department of Health EMT - Paramedic Certification at the time you are appointed to this position and must maintain them for the duration of your employment. You will be responsible for payment of any fees associated with the maintenance of certifications . Driver License Requirement: You must have a motor vehicle driver license valid in the State of New York at the time of appointment. If you have moving violations, license suspension(s) or an accident record, you may be disqualified. This license must be maintained for the duration of your employment. Respirator Equipment Requirement: Because you must be able to wear a NIOSH-certified respirator, you are not permitted to have facial hair that interferes with the sealing surface of the respirator and the face or interferes with the valve function of the respirator. Medical and Psychological Assessment: Medical and psychological guidelines have been established for the position of Emergency Medical Specialist - EMT. You will be examined to determine whether you can perform the essential functions of an Emergency Medical Specialist - EMT. Additionally, you will be expected to continue to perform the essential functions of an Emergency Medical Specialist - EMT throughout your career, and may, therefore, be medically and psychologically tested periodically throughout your career. Where appropriate, a reasonable accommodation will be provided for a person with a disability to enable him or her to take these medical and psychological examinations, and/or to perform the essential functions of the job. Character and Background: In accordance with the provisions of the State Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Code - Part 800, candidates for EMS certification or recertification must not have been convicted of certain misdemeanors or felonies. The New York State Department of Health (DOH) will review all criminal convictions from any federal, military or state and/or local jurisdiction to determine if such convictions fall within the scope of those specified in Part 800, and if the applicant represents an unreasonable risk to property or the safety or welfare of patients or the public at large. For more information contact the DOH website at www.health.state.ny.us/nysdoh/ems/main.htm or telephone at (212) 417-4455. In addition to this provision of the State Emergency Medical Services Code, candidates for this position are advised that good character and satisfactory background are absolute prerequisites to appointment. Drug Screening Requirement: You must pass a drug screening in order to be appointed. Random drug screening may be conducted for the duration of your Emergency Medical Specialist - EMT career. Qualifying Physical Test: Physical standards have been established for the position of Emergency Medical Specialist - EMT. You will be required to pass a qualifying physical test, and may be required to undergo periodic physical testing throughout your career. Note : If you are presently serving as a provisional Emergency Medical Specialist - EMT with the FDNY and have previously taken and passed the qualifying physical test, you will not be required to take it again to qualify for appointment. Residency Requirement : City residency is not required for this position. English Requirement : You must be able to understand and be understood in English. Proof of Identity : Under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, you must be able to prove your identity and your right to obtain employment in the United States prior to employment with an agency under the jurisdiction of the Commissioner, Department of Citywide Administrative Services. HOW TO APPLY: Apply through the Online Application System (OASys) at www.nyc.gov/examsforjobs . Follow the onscreen instructions to submit your application and payment. A valid email address is required. Free email accounts are available from Google, Yahoo!, AOL, Outlook.com, or Mail.com. New OASys accounts must be verified to confirm your email address is valid and that you have access to the email account. You will receive a confirmation email from OASys to confirm your account upon registering for your OASys account. If any issues arise, contact DCAS at nyc.gov/CivilServiceNowNYC and select the applicable subject. If you do not receive the confirmation email, check your spam or junk mail folder before contacting DCAS. You can pay with major credit cards, bank cards, or prepaid debit cards with a credit card logo. Veterans and individuals receiving certain public assistance may qualify for a fee waiver. For more information on eligibility and required documentation, visit the Fee Waiver FAQs on OASys at https://a856-exams.nyc.gov/OASysWeb/faqs . You may come to the DCAS Computer-based Testing & Application Centers to apply for this examination online. The centers will be open Monday through Friday from 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM: Manhattan Brooklyn Queens 2 Lafayette Street 210 Joralemon Street 118-35 Queens Boulevard 17th Floor 4th Floor 5th Floor New York, NY 10007 Brooklyn, NY 11201 Forest Hills, NY 11375 Staten Island Bronx 135 Canal Street 1932 Arthur Avenue 3rd Floor 2nd Floor Staten Island, NY 10304 Bronx, NY 10457 The DCAS Computer-based Testing & Application Centers will be closed on Friday, June 19, 2026, and Friday, July 3, 2026. Application Receipt: After applying for the examination through the Online Application System (OASys), expect an immediate receipt via email. If you don't see it, be sure to check your Junk, Trash, or Spam folders. Alternatively, you can view a summary of your application status on your OASys Dashboard under "Notifications." If you still can't find the email, contact DCAS at nyc.gov/CivilServiceNowNYC and select the applicable subject. Include your exam number and profile number for easier identification. Also, verify that your email address in your profile is accurate and up to date. Finally, add OASys@dcas.nyc.gov to your known senders to ensure you receive all important communications. Special Circumstances Guide: This Guide provides instructions for requesting alternate test dates for religious observances, how to apply for disability accommodations, Legacy credit, and address changes. Following the relevant instructions in the guide is crucial when filling out the "Application for Examination." Guide Link: https://www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/employment/nyc-dcas-special-circumstances-guide.pdf Civil Service Guidance for Veterans: There are a range of benefits available to eligible veterans in their civil service careers. Specifically, veterans and disabled veterans may be eligible for application fee waivers, preference credits, make-up exams, retroactive seniority, and age deduction where the exam has maximum age requirements. Review the Civil Service Guidance for Veterans at: https://www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/employment/faqs-for-veterans.pdf PENALTY FOR MISREPRESENTATION: Any intentional misrepresentation on the application or examination may result in disqualification, even after appointment, and may result in criminal prosecution. REQUIRED INFORMATION: Application for Examination: Follow the online instructions, including those relating to the payment of fee and, if applicable, those found in the Special Circumstances Guide. Education and Experience Exam: Complete the exam by following the on-screen instructions. You must provide detailed information about your certifications, education, and experience and finalize your submission in the Online Application System (OASys) by midnight Eastern time on the last day of the application period. Note: You must list the title of EMT certificate(s) you hold, the issuing organization, date issued, certificate number and expiration date of your EMT certificate(s) in your OASys Dashboard, under Profile and License/Professional Certifications. Once you click on Final Submit, no further changes can be made. Failure to submit by the deadline will result in your examination being deemed incomplete, and you will not receive a score or be invited to any subsequent exam portions. Additionally, your application fee will not be refunded. If applicable, ensure your foreign education evaluation is submitted directly to DCAS by an approved evaluation service within eight weeks after the application deadline. Approved evaluation services are listed in the Foreign Education Evaluation Guide located on the DCAS website at https://www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/employment/nyc-dcas-foreign-education-evaluation-guide.pdf. Request a "document-by-document" (general) evaluation. THE TEST: Your score will be determined by an Education and Experience Exam. You will receive a score of 70 points for meeting the education and certificate requirements listed above. After these requirements are met, you will receive additional credit up to a maximum of 100 points on the following basis: Experience and certifications/training used to gain additional credit must be obtained by the last day of the Application Period (August 7, 2026) . If you have satisfactory, full-time experience in the NYC 911 system performing emergency medical service duties after obtaining, and while holding, a valid NYS Department of Health EMT - Basic certification or a valid NYS Department of Health EMT - Paramedic certification for: You will receive up to: At least 1 month but less than 3 months 2.5 points At least 3 months, but less than 6 months 5.5 points At least 6 months but less than 9 months 8.5 points At least 9 months, but less than 1 year 11.5 points At least 1 year but less than 1 year and 3 months 14.5 points At least 1 year and 3 months but less than 1 year and 6 months 17.5 points At least 1 year and 6 months, but less than 1 year and 9 months 20.5 points At least 1 year and 9 months, but less than 2 years 23.5 points 2 or more years 26.5 points If you have satisfactory, full-time paid experience with a government-run ambulance system outside of the NYC 911 system or with a private ambulance company or satisfactory full-time experience with a volunteer ambulance company performing emergency medical service duties after obtaining, and while holding, a valid NYS Department of Health EMT - Basic certification or a valid NYS Department of Health EMT - Paramedic certification for: You will receive up to: 1 or more years 6 points If within the last 5 years you have successfully completed the: You will receive : Emergency Vehicle Operators Course (EVOC), consistent with the 1995 National Standard Curriculum 6.5 points 24 hours of HazMat Operations Level Training, consistent with the federal OSHA regulations at 29 CFR 1910.120(q)(6)(ii) 6.5 points EVOC and/or HazMat Training must be successfully completed by the last day of the Application Period (August 7, 2026) . HazMat Training must be on the Operations Level; you will not receive credit for entry- level training. During the Education and Experience Exam (EEE), you will get instructions on converting part-time experience to the full-time equivalent. You must Final Submit your Education and Experience Exam in OASys by midnight Eastern time on the last day of the Application Period, and once you Final Submit, no changes can be made. Failure to click Final Submit by the deadline will result in an incomplete application, and you will not receive a score or a refund of the application fee. CHANGE OF MAILING ADDRESS, EMAIL ADDRESS, AND/OR TELEPHONE NUMBER: It is essential to promptly notify DCAS of any changes to your mailing address, email address, or phone number. Without your correct contact information, you may miss important updates regarding your exam(s), appointment considerations, or critical information that requires a timely response. To update your contact information, follow these steps: City Employees: update your information in NYCAPS Employee Self-Service (ESS) at www.nyc.gov/ess All Others: Log into your OASys account at www.nyc.gov/examsforjobs , navigate to your Dashboard, and update your Profile page. CHANGE OF NAME AND/OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER: To change your name and/or social security number with DCAS, use the Data Correction Form and follow all instructions provided. You can access the DCAS Data Correction Form at the following link: https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/employment/dp148a.pdf. THE TEST RESULTS: If you pass the Education and Experience Exam, your name will be placed on an eligible list in final score order. You will receive a list number and be notified of your test results via email. This eligible list determines the order of candidates considered for appointment, usually active for four years. For more information about the civil service system, visit: https://www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/employment/moreabout-civil-service.page . If you believe your test was rated incorrectly, you can appeal your score to DCAS, Committee on Manifest Errors, using the Online Application System (OASys). Your appeal must clearly state the reasons for requesting a higher score and may result in a different rating. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: Investigation: The position is subject to investigation before appointment. At the time of investigation, you will be required to pay a fingerprint screening fee of $102.50 ($75.00 for DCJS, $13.25 for FBI plus a $14.25 service fee). At the time of investigation and at the time of appointment, you must present originals or certified copies of all required documents and proof, including but not limited to proof of date and place of birth by transcript, or other satisfactory evidence, naturalization papers, if necessary, proof of any military service, and proof of meeting educational and experiential requirements, if applicable. You may be disqualified if your statements are found to be false, exaggerated, or misleading or if you fail to provide required documents. Investigation must be completed prior to appointment. Selective Certification for Special Experience: If you have the experience in the areas listed below, you may be considered for appointment to positions requiring this experience through a process called Selective Certification. If you qualify for Selective Certification, you may be given preferred consideration for positions requiring this experience. If you wish to apply for this Selective Certification, follow the onscreen instructions when completing your Education and Experience Exam to indicate your interest in such Selective Certification and Final Submit it in the Online Application System (OASys). Your experience will be checked by the appointing agency at the time of appointment. AmeriCorps (AMC): Successful completion of at least ten (10) months of satisfactory, full-time experience as a NYC Service AmeriCorps member at a City agency or non-profit organization, which includes 100+ hours of workforce preparedness trainings. Civil Service Pathways Fellowship (FEL): Successful completion of at least one (1) year of the Civil Service Pathways Fellowship program. Federal Government Experience (FGE): At least one (1) year of satisfactory, full-time experience working within the federal government of the United States in a similar position. Municipal Government Experience (MGE): At least one (1) year of full-time satisfactory experience working within a municipal government in a similar position, which provides services for a city with over 1 million in population. The above Selective Certification requirements may be met at any time during the duration of the list. If you meet the Selective Certification requirement at some future date, please submit a request by contacting DCAS via the following link: nyc.gov/CivilServiceNowNYC using the "Selective Certification" subject. Please include the examination title and number, your full name, OASys Profile ID number, and the Selective Certification(s) you are requesting in your submission. Probationary Period: The probationary period is 12 months. As part of the probationary period, probationers will be required to successfully complete a prescribed training course. Probationers who fail to successfully complete the training course may be terminated by the agency head. Also, you must successfully complete the Emergency Vehicle Operations Course (EVOC) prior to the completion of one year in title. EMS Academy Assessment: As a condition of completing EMS Academy training, you must pass multiple choice exams, quizzes, scenarios and New York State written and practical exams. Note: If you are presently serving as a Provisional Emergency Medical Specialist - EMT with the FDNY and have previously taken and passed the written and practical tests, you will not be required to complete the EMS Academy Assessment again. READ CAREFULLY AND SAVE FOR FUTURE REFERENCE The General Examination Regulations of the Department of Citywide Administrative Services (DCAS) apply to this examination and are part of this Notice of Examination. They are posted at nyc.gov/dcas and copies are available at the DCAS Computer-based Testing & Application Centers. The City of New York is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Title Code No. 53053; Health Technician Occupational Group. For information about other exams, and your exam or list status, call 212-669-1357. Internet: nyc.gov/dcas Translation Notice This translation is provided by Google Translate and may not be 100% accurate. Please review accordingly. I Understand Loading... Translating content, please wait...
