7016 Caseworker Just a friendly reminder: the translation may not be perfectly accurate. We recommend giving it a quick review. Thank you! ZOHRAN KWAME MAMDANI Mayor DEPARTMENT OF CITYWIDE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES BUREAU OF EXAMINATIONS YUME KITASEI Commissioner NOTICE OF EXAMINATION Caseworker Exam No. 7016 (For Agencies Under the Jurisdiction of the Commissioner, DCAS Only) When To Apply: From: July 1, 2026 To: August 25, 2026 Application Fee: $68.00 Candidates paying the application fee with a credit, debit, or gift card will incur a nonrefundable 2.00% service fee. However, veterans, unemployed individuals, New York City high school students, first-time test takers, and those receiving public assistance or supplementary security income qualify for a fee waiver. YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR READING THIS ENTIRE NOTICE BEFORE YOU SUBMIT YOUR APPLICATION. WHAT THE JOB INVOLVES: Caseworkers, under supervision, with some latitude for independent action and decision-making, provide social services to clients/patients, such as recipients of public assistance, SNAP, and/or medical assistance, child care assistance, adults receiving or needing institutional care or protective services, and homeless adults/families; identify, develop, and implement social service plans for such individuals; may determine the eligibility for these services; and may perform advocacy for social services and health-related services, counseling, and investigative activities. All Caseworkers perform related work. Special Working Conditions: Caseworkers may be required, depending on program requirements, to perform routine field work requiring them to travel on public transportation or by car within the five boroughs of New York City. Examples of field work include performing home visits to assess a client’s or patient’s living environment, escorting a client/patient to a social service or medical appointment, or accompanying a client/patient to view housing units for potential rental. Caseworkers may be required to work various shifts including nights, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays. (This is a brief description of what you might do in this position and does not include all the duties of this position.) THE SALARY: The current minimum salary is $48,206 per annum. This rate is subject to change. HOW TO QUALIFY: It is your responsibility to ensure that you meet the education and experience requirements for the examination before submitting your application. If you are deemed "Not Qualified," your application fee will not be refunded and you will not receive a score. As per Section 54(2) of the Civil Service Law, the education requirement needed to qualify must be met by August 25, 2027. EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS: A baccalaureate degree from an accredited college or university accredited by regional, national, professional, or specialized agencies recognized as accrediting bodies by the U.S. Secretary of Education and by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA). If you were educated outside the United States, you must have your foreign education evaluated to determine its equivalence to education obtained in the United States. This is required only if you need credit for your foreign education in this examination. For more information see the Foreign Education Evaluation Guide in the Required Information section. You must Final Submit your Education and Experience Exam in OASys by midnight Eastern time on the last day of the Application Period, and once you Final Submit, no changes can be made. Failure to click Final Submit by the deadline will result in an incomplete application, and you will not receive a score or a refund of the application fee. Assignment Of Duties: Section 424-a of the NYS Social Services Law requires an authorized agency to inquire whether a candidate selected for employment who will have regular and substantial contact with children is, or has been, the subject of an indicated child abuse and maltreatment report on file with the Statewide Central Register for child abuse and maltreatment. Statewide Central Register checks will be obtained as part of the background screening process for selected candidates. Candidates who have been the subject of an indicated child abuse and maltreatment report may not be hired or assigned to any position that requires regular and substantial contact with children. Employees who have been the subject of such a report may be reassigned or terminated from employment from their positions as Caseworker. The Protection of People with Special Needs Act: Article 20 of the NYS Executive Law and Article 11 of the NYS Social Services Law require an authorized agency to inquire whether a candidate selected for employment to a position with the potential for regular and substantial contact with vulnerable persons with special needs has been found responsible for serious or repeated acts of abuse and neglect through a check of the Staff Exclusion List maintained by the NYS Justice Center for the Protection of People with Special Needs. Candidates who have substantiated/indicated cases on file with the Staff Exclusion List will not be hired or assigned to such a position. Residency Requirement Advisory: City residency is not required for this position. English Requirement: You must be able to understand and be understood in English. Proof of Identity: Under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, you must be able to prove your identity and your right to obtain employment in the United States prior to employment with an agency under the jurisdiction of the Commissioner, Department of Citywide Administrative Services. HOW TO APPLY: Apply through the Online Application System (OASys) at www.nyc.gov/examsforjobs . Follow the onscreen application instructions to submit your application and payment. A valid email address is required. Free email accounts are available from Google, Yahoo!, AOL, Outlook.com, or Mail.com. New OASys accounts must be verified to confirm your email address is valid and that you have access to the email account. You will receive a confirmation email from OASys to confirm your account upon registering for your OASys account. If any issues arise, contact DCAS at nyc.gov/CivilServiceNowNYC and select the applicable subject. If you do not receive the confirmation email, check your spam or junk mail folder before contacting DCAS. You can pay with major credit cards, bank cards, or prepaid debit cards with a credit card logo. Veterans and individuals receiving certain public assistance may qualify for a fee waiver. For more information on eligibility and required documentation, visit the Fee Waiver FAQs on OASys at https://a856-exams.nyc.gov/OASysWeb/faqs . You may come to the DCAS Computer-based Testing & Application Centers to apply for this examination online. The centers will be open Monday through Friday from 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM: Manhattan Brooklyn Queens 2 Lafayette Street 210 Joralemon Street 118-35 Queens Boulevard 17th Floor 4th Floor 5th Floor New York, NY 10007 Brooklyn, NY 11201 Forest Hills, NY 11375 Staten Island Bronx 135 Canal Street 1932 Arthur Avenue 3rd Floor 2nd Floor Staten Island, NY 10304 Bronx, NY 10457 The DCAS Computer-based Testing & Application Centers will be closed on Friday, July 3, 2026. Application Receipt: After applying for the examination through the Online Application System (OASys), expect an immediate receipt via email. If you don't see it, be sure to check your Junk, Trash, or Spam folders. Alternatively, you can view a summary of your application status on your OASys Dashboard under "Notifications." If you still can't find the email, contact DCAS at NYC.gov/CivilServiceNowNYC and select the applicable subject. Include your exam number and profile number for easier identification. Also, verify that your email address in your profile is accurate and up to date. Finally, add OASys@dcas.nyc.gov to your known senders to ensure you receive all important communications. This examination is for positions with City Agencies only. If you would like to apply for Caseworker at NYC Health + Hospitals, you must submit a separate application and fee for Exam No. 7018 from July 1, 2026 through August 25, 2026 . Special Circumstances Guide: This Guide provides instructions for requesting alternate test dates for religious observances, how to apply for disability accommodations, Legacy credit, and address changes. Following the relevant instructions in the guide is crucial when filling out the "Application for Examination." Guide Link: https://www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/employment/nyc-dcas-special-circumstances-guide.pdf Civil Service Guidance for Veterans: There are a range of benefits available to eligible veterans in their civil service careers. Specifically, veterans and disabled veterans may be eligible for application fee waivers, preference credits, make-up exams, retroactive seniority, and age deduction where the exam has maximum age requirements. Review the Civil Service Guidance for Veterans at: https://www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/employment/faqs-for-veterans.pdf PENALTY FOR MISREPRESENTATION: Any intentional misrepresentation on the application or examination may result in disqualification, even after appointment, and may result in criminal prosecution. REQUIRED INFORMATION: Application for Examination: Follow the online instructions, including those relating to the payment of fee and, if applicable, those found in the Special Circumstances Guide. Education and Experience Exam: Complete the exam by following the on-screen instructions. You must provide detailed information about your licenses, education, and experience and finalize your submission in the Online Application System (OASys) by midnight Eastern time on the last day of the application period. Once you click on Final Submit, no further changes can be made. Failure to submit by the deadline will result in your examination being deemed incomplete, and you will not receive a score or be invited to any subsequent exam portions. Additionally, your application fee will not be refunded. If applicable, ensure your foreign education evaluation is submitted directly to DCAS by an approved evaluation service within eight weeks after the application deadline. Approved evaluation services are listed in the Foreign Education Evaluation Guide located on the DCAS website at https://www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/employment/nyc-dcas-foreign-education-evaluation-guide.pdf. Request a "document-by-document" (general) evaluation. THE TEST: Your score will be determined by an Education and Experience Exam. You will receive a score of 70 points for meeting the education requirements listed above. After these requirements are met, you will receive additional credit up to a maximum of 100 points on the following basis: Experience used to gain additional credit must be obtained by the last day of the Application Period (August 25, 2026) . If you have satisfactory full-time experience conducting research regarding financial or health-related history of clients, filling out evaluation forms to determine risk for clients, or maintaining documentation of observations made while conducting field visits for: You will receive up to: At least 6 months but less than 12 months 5 points At least 12 months but less than 18 months 10 points At least 18 months but less than 24 months 15 points At least 24 months but less than 30 months 20 points At least 30 months but less than 36 months 25 points 36 or more months 30 points If you have satisfactory full-time experience providing customer service, both in person and via email or phone calls, for: You will receive up to: At least 6 months but less than 12 months 5 points At least 12 months but less than 18 months 10 points At least 18 months but less than 24 months 15 points At least 24 months but less than 30 months 20 points At least 30 months but less than 36 months 25 points 36 or more months 30 points During the Education and Experience Exam (EEE), you will get instructions on converting part-time experience to the full-time equivalent. You will receive a maximum of one year of experience credit for each year you worked. You must Final Submit your Education and Experience Exam in OASys by midnight Eastern time on the last day of the Application Period, and once you Final Submit, no changes can be made. Failure to click Final Submit by the deadline will result in an incomplete application, and you will not receive a score or a refund of the application fee. CHANGE OF MAILING ADDRESS, EMAIL ADDRESS, AND/OR TELEPHONE NUMBER: It is essential to promptly notify DCAS of any changes to your mailing address, email address, or phone number. Without your correct contact information, you may miss important updates regarding your exam(s), appointment considerations, or critical information that requires a timely response. To update your contact information, follow these steps: City Employees: update your information in NYCAPS Employee Self-Service (ESS) at www.nyc.gov/ess All Others: Log into your OASys account at www.nyc.gov/examsforjobs , navigate to your Dashboard, and update your Profile page. CHANGE OF NAME AND/OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER: To change your name and/or social security number with DCAS, use the Data Correction Form and follow all instructions provided. You can access the DCAS Data Correction Form at the following link: https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/employment/dp148a.pdf . THE TEST RESULTS: If you pass the Education and Experience Exam, your name will be placed on an eligible list in final score order. You will receive a list number and be notified of your test results via email. This eligible list determines the order of candidates considered for appointment, usually active for four years. For more information about the civil service system, visit: https://www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/employment/more-about-civil-service.page . If you believe your test was rated incorrectly, you can appeal your score to DCAS, Committee on Manifest Errors, using the Online Application System (OASys). Your appeal must clearly state the reasons for requesting a higher score and may result in a different rating. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: If you have the experience listed in one or more of the areas listed below, you may be considered for appointment to positions requiring this experience through a process called Selective Certification. If you qualify for Selective Certification, you may be given preferred consideration for positions requiring this experience. Follow the onscreen instructions when completing your Education and Experience Exam to indicate your interest in such Selective Certification and Final Submit it in the Online Application System (OASys). Selective Certification For Special Experience: Selective Certification for Positions Requiring Municipal Government Experience (MGE) : At least three (3) months of full-time satisfactory experience working within a municipal government, which provides services for a city with over 1 million in population, providing economic support and other economic opportunity services and supportive services to persons in need. Selective Certification for Positions Requiring Casework Experience (CSW) : Possession of 24 semester credits in one or a combination of the following fields: gerontology, social work, psychology, sociology, human services, criminal justice, education, nursing, or cultural anthropology, with at least 12 of these credits in one discipline or at least one (1) year of casework experience with a vulnerable population (e.g. elderly, HIV/AIDS, domestic violence), and/or individuals with mental illness or substance use disorder. Semester credits must be obtained from an accredited college or university. Selective Certification for Positions Requiring Customer Relationship Management Systems with Experience (CMS) : At least three (3) months of full-time satisfactory experience working within a call center utilizing customer relationship software / case management software. Selective Certification for Experience Working with Young Adults (EWA) : At least three (3) months of full-time satisfactory casework experience working directly with young adults (ages 18-24). Selective Certification for Experience Working with Youth (EWY) : At least three (3) months of full-time satisfactory casework experience working directly with youth (ages 12-17). Selective Certification for Federal Government Experience (FGE) : At least one (1) year of satisfactory, full-time experience working within the federal government of the United States in a similar position. Selective Certification for AmeriCorps (AMC) : Successful completion of at least ten (10) months of satisfactory, full-time experience as a NYC Service AmeriCorps member at a City agency or non-profit organization, which includes 100+ hours of workforce preparedness trainings. Selective Certification for Civil Service Pathways Fellowship (FEL) : Successful completion of at least one (1) year of the Civil Service Pathways Fellowship program. Selective Certification for Foreign Language and/or American Sign Language: If you can speak Albanian (ALB) , Arabic (ARA) , Bengali (BEN) , Bosnian/Serbo-Croatian (SRC) , Chinese (Cantonese) (CAN) , Chinese (Mandarin) (MAN) , French (FRE) , Greek (GRE) , Haitian/Creole (CRE) , Hindi (HIN) , Italian (ITA) , Japanese (JPN) , Korean (KOR) , Polish (POL) , Portuguese (POR) , Pular (PUL) , Russian (RUS) , Spanish (SPA) , Tibetan (TIB) , Urdu (URD) , Vietnamese (VIE) , West African Languages (e.g. Ibo (IBO) , Swahili (SWA) , Wolof (WOL) , Yoruba (YOR) ), Yiddish (YDD) and/or you know American Sign Language (ASL) , you may be considered for appointment to positions requiring this ability through a process called Selective Certification. If you pass a qualifying test, you may be given preferred consideration for positions requiring this ability. Follow the onscreen instructions when completing the Education and Experience Exam to indicate your interest in such Selective Certification and Final Submit it in the Online Application System (OASys). The above Selective Certification requirements may be met anytime during the duration of the list. If you meet the Selective Certification requirement at some future date, please submit a request via the following link: nyc.gov/CivilServiceNowNYC using the "Selective Certification" subject. Please include the examination title and number, your full name, OASys Profile ID number, and the specific Selective Certification you are requesting in your submission. Translation Notice: This document is provided in English. Solely for convenience, Google Translate is offered to provide machine-generated translations to other languages. The New York City Department of Citywide Administrative Services (DCAS) makes no representations or warranties, express or implied, regarding the accuracy, completeness, or reliability of any machine-generated translation and shall not be liable for any errors or omissions arising from the use of such translations. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the translated version and the English version, the English version will control and prevail. READ CAREFULLY AND SAVE FOR FUTURE REFERENCE The General Examination Regulations of the Department of Citywide Administrative Services (DCAS) apply to this examination and are part of this Notice of Examination. They are posted at nyc.gov/dcas and copies are available at the DCAS Computer-based Testing & Application Centers. The City of New York is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Title Code No. 52304; Social Service Occupational Group. For information about other exams, and your exam or list status, call 212-669-1357. Internet: nyc.gov/dcas Translation Notice This translation is provided by Google Translate and may not be 100% accurate. Please review accordingly. I Understand Loading... Translating content, please wait...
