7013 Automotive Service Worker Just a friendly reminder: the translation may not be perfectly accurate. We recommend giving it a quick review. Thank you! ZOHRAN KWAME MAMDANI Mayor DEPARTMENT OF CITYWIDE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES BUREAU OF EXAMINATIONS YUME KITASEI Commissioner NOTICE OF EXAMINATION Automotive Service Worker Exam No. 7013 AMENDED NOTICE - July 15, 2026 When To Apply: From: July 1, 2026 To: August 25, 2026 Application Fee: $61.00 Candidates paying the application fee with a credit, debit, or gift card will incur a nonrefundable 2.00% service fee. However, veterans, unemployed individuals, New York City high school students, first-time test takers, and those receiving public assistance or supplementary security income qualify for a fee waiver. The Notice of Examination is amended to extend the last day of the Application Period from July 21, 2026 to August 25, 2026. Candidates who previously applied do not need to apply again . YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR READING THIS ENTIRE NOTICE BEFORE YOU SUBMIT YOUR APPLICATION. WHAT THE JOB INVOLVES: Automotive Service Workers, under varying levels of supervision and degrees of difficulty, assist in and perform automotive maintenance services such as inspection, and repair work. Automotive Service Workers, under direct supervision, perform repairs and automotive maintenance services such as preventive maintenance, inspection, battery service, checking, servicing, patching and changing tires; lubrication and oil change; clean, wash and polish vehicles; clean interior of vehicles; dispense gasoline and oil; check the level, and refill automobile fluids such as coolant, oil, transmission and brake fluids; assist in performing tune ups, in shops and on the road, and in replacement of engine parts, drive-trains, transmissions, steering gear and components, ignition, heating and cooling systems, air conditioning components, brake system, lighting system, sirens and backup warning tone systems, etc; operate motor vehicles to test repairs; may operate a tow truck when duties require; maintain and update vehicle service and repair records. All Automotive Service Workers perform related work. Special Working Conditions: Automotive Service Workers may be required to work various shifts including nights, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays. Some of the physical activities performed by Automotive Service Workers and environmental conditions experienced are: working in a non-temperature controlled environment; climbing ladders; moving heavy automotive parts; carrying heavy tool boxes; crawling and working in narrow spaces; working in the vicinity of hazardous, flammable materials and solvents and engine exhaust fumes. (This is a brief description of what you might do in this position and does not include all the duties of this position.) THE SALARY: The current minimum salary is $42,387 per annum. This rate is subject to change. There are two assignment levels within this class of positions. Appointments will generally be made to Assignment Level 1. After appointment, employees may be assigned to the higher assignment level at the discretion of the agency. HOW TO QUALIFY: It is your responsibility to ensure that you meet the education and experience requirements for the examination before submitting your application. If you are deemed "Not Qualified," your application fee will not be refunded and you will not receive a score. As per Section 54(2) of the Civil Service Law, the education requirement needed to qualify must be met by July 21, 2027. The experience requirement needed to qualify must be met by July 21, 2026. EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS: Two years of full-time satisfactory experience, performing automotive maintenance services, such as inspection, lubrication and oil changing acquired in a garage or gasoline service station; or Graduation from an approved trade school, vocational high school or technical school with a course of study in automotive maintenance and repair; or An Associate Degree from an accredited college or university with a major in automotive technology; or A satisfactory combination of education and experience which is equivalent to paragraphs 1, 2, or 3 above. Six months of experience will be credited for satisfactory completion of each year of full-time approved trade school, vocational high school, technical school, college or university education with a course of study in automotive maintenance and repair. The trade school, technical school, vocational high school, high school diploma or its educational equivalent must be approved by a State's Department of Education or a recognized accrediting organization. The college or university must be accredited by regional, national, professional, or specialized agencies recognized as accrediting bodies by the U.S. Secretary of Education and by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA). If you were educated outside the United States, you must have your foreign education evaluated to determine its equivalence to education obtained in the United States. This is required only if you need credit for your foreign education in this examination. For more information see the Foreign Education Evaluation Guide in the Required Information section. During the Education and Experience Exam (EEE), you will get instructions on converting part-time experience to the full-time equivalent. You must final submit all relevant education and experience details in the Online Application System (OASys) by midnight Eastern time. Once you click on Final Submit, you cannot make any changes. Failure to click Final Submit by the deadline will result in an incomplete application, and you will not receive a score or a refund of the application fee. Driver License Requirement: At the time of appointment, all candidates must possess a Motor Vehicle Driver License valid in the State of New York. Serious moving violations, license suspensions, or an accident record, may disqualify you. This license must be maintained for the duration of employment. For certain positions, a New York State Class A Commercial Driver License (with Towing Endorsement) or a New York State Class B Commercial Driver License (with Air Brakes) is required. If appointed, you are required to obtain a New York State Class B Commercial Driver License with no restrictions within your probationary period. If you do not obtain a New York State Class B Commercial Driver License with no restrictions within your probationary period, you will be terminated. This license must be maintained for the duration of employment. Note: Candidates may qualify with a Commercial Driver Learner's Permit and must obtain the required license within 180 days of appointment. Drug/Alcohol Screening Requirement: You must pass a drug/alcohol screening in order to be appointed Residency Requirement Advisory: Under New York City Administrative Code Section 12-120, you might need to be a resident of the City of New York within 90 days of the date you are appointed to this position. Since residency requirements vary by title, appointing agency and length of service, consult the appointing agency's personnel office at the time of the appointment interview to find out if City residency is required. English Requirement: You must be able to understand and be understood in English. Proof of Identity: Under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, you must be able to prove your identity and your right to obtain employment in the United States prior to employment with an agency under the jurisdiction of the Commissioner, Department of Citywide Administrative Services. HOW TO APPLY: Apply through the Online Application System (OASys) at www.nyc.gov/examsforjobs . Follow the onscreen application instructions to submit your application and payment. A valid email address is required. Free email accounts are available from Google, Yahoo!, AOL, Outlook.com, or Mail.com. New OASys accounts must be verified to confirm your email address is valid and that you have access to the email account. You will receive a confirmation email from OASys to confirm your account upon registering for your OASys account. If any issues arise, contact DCAS at nyc.gov/CivilServiceNowNYC and select the applicable subject. If you do not receive the confirmation email, check your spam or junk mail folder before contacting DCAS. You can pay with major credit cards, bank cards, or prepaid debit cards with a credit card logo. Veterans and individuals receiving certain public assistance may qualify for a fee waiver. For more information on eligibility and required documentation, visit the Fee Waiver FAQs on OASys at https://a856-exams.nyc.gov/OASysWeb/faqs . You may come to the DCAS Computer-based Testing & Application Centers to apply for this examination online. The centers will be open Monday through Friday from 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM: Manhattan Brooklyn Queens 2 Lafayette Street 210 Joralemon Street 118-35 Queens Boulevard 17th Floor 4th Floor 5th Floor New York, NY 10007 Brooklyn, NY 11201 Forest Hills, NY 11375 Staten Island Bronx 135 Canal Street 1932 Arthur Avenue 3rd Floor 2nd Floor Staten Island, NY 10304 Bronx, NY 10457 The DCAS Computer-based Testing & Application Centers will be closed on Friday, July 3, 2026. Application Receipt: After applying for the examination through the Online Application System (OASys), expect an immediate receipt via email. If you don't see it, be sure to check your Junk, Trash, or Spam folders. Alternatively, you can view a summary of your application status on your OASys Dashboard under "Notifications." If you still can't find the email, contact DCAS at NYC.gov/CivilServiceNowNYC and select the applicable subject. Include your exam number and profile number for easier identification. Also, verify that your email address in your profile is accurate and up to date. Finally, add OASys@dcas.nyc.gov to your known senders to ensure you receive all important communications. Special Circumstances Guide: This Guide provides instructions for requesting alternate test dates for religious observances, how to apply for disability accommodations, Legacy credit, and address changes. Following the relevant instructions in the guide is crucial when filling out the "Application for Examination." Guide Link: https://www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/employment/nyc-dcas-special-circumstances-guide.pdf Civil Service Guidance for Veterans: There are a range of benefits available to eligible veterans in their civil service careers. Specifically, veterans and disabled veterans may be eligible for application fee waivers, preference credits, make-up exams, retroactive seniority, and age deduction where the exam has maximum age requirements. Review the Civil Service Guidance for Veterans at: https://www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/employment/faqs-for-veterans.pdf PENALTY FOR MISREPRESENTATION: Any intentional misrepresentation on the application or examination may result in disqualification, even after appointment, and may result in criminal prosecution. REQUIRED INFORMATION: Application for Examination: Follow the online instructions, including those relating to the payment of fee and, if applicable, those found in the Special Circumstances Guide. Education and Experience Exam: Complete the exam by following the on-screen instructions. You must provide detailed information about your licenses, education, and experience and finalize your submission in the Online Application System (OASys) by midnight Eastern time on the last day of the application period. Once you click on Final Submit, no further changes can be made. Failure to submit by the deadline will result in your examination being deemed incomplete, and you will not receive a score or be invited to any subsequent exam portions. Additionally, your application fee will not be refunded. If applicable, ensure your foreign education evaluation is submitted directly to DCAS by an approved evaluation service within eight weeks after the application deadline. Approved evaluation services are listed in the Foreign Education Evaluation Guide located on the DCAS website at https://www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/employment/nyc-dcas-foreign-education-evaluation-guide.pdf. Request a "course-by-course" evaluation (which includes a "document-by-document" evaluation). THE TEST: Your score will be determined by an Education and Experience Exam. You will receive a score of 70 points for meeting the education and experience requirements listed above. After these requirements are met, you will receive additional credit up to a maximum of 100 points on the following basis: Education and experience used to gain additional credit must be obtained by July 21, 2026. If you have satisfactory full-time experience performing automotive maintenance services, such as lubricating, inspection, and oil changing, acquired in a garage or gasoline service station for: You will receive up to: At least 6 months but less than 12 months 1.25 points At least 12 months but less than 18 months 2.5 points At least 18 months but less than 24 months 3.75 points At least 24 months but less than 30 months 5 points At least 30 months but less than 36 months 6.25 points At least 36 months but less than 42 months 7.5 points At least 42 months but less than 48 months 8.75 points At least 48 months but less than 54 months 10 points At least 54 months but less than 60 months 11.25 points At least 60 months but less than 66 months 12.5 points At least 66 months but less than 72 months 13.75 points At least 72 months but less than 78 months 15 points At least 78 months but less than 84 months 16.25 points At least 84 months but less than 90 months 17.5 points At least 90 months but less than 96 months 18.75 points At least 96 months but less than 102 months 20 points At least 102 months but less than 108 months 21.25 points At least 108 months but less than 114 months 22.5 points At least 114 months but less than 120 months 23.75 points 120 or more months 25 points If you have undergraduate credits completed at an accredited college or university in automotive technology, automotive technology management, or a related field, for the completion of: You will receive up to: At least 60 semester credits 4 points 61 to 89 semester credits 8 points 90 to 119 semester credits 12 points 120 or more semester credits 16 points During the Education and Experience Exam (EEE), you will get instructions on converting part-time experience to the full-time equivalent. Education and experience used to meet the minimum requirements cannot be used to gain additional credit. You must Final Submit your Education and Experience Exam in OASys by midnight Eastern time on the last day of the Application Period, and once you Final Submit, no changes can be made. Failure to click Final Submit by the deadline will result in an incomplete application, and you will not receive a score or a refund of the application fee. CHANGE OF MAILING ADDRESS, EMAIL ADDRESS, AND/OR TELEPHONE NUMBER: It is essential to promptly notify DCAS of any changes to your mailing address, email address, or phone number. Without your correct contact information, you may miss important updates regarding your exam(s), appointment considerations, or critical information that requires a timely response. To update your contact information, follow these steps: City Employees: update your information in NYCAPS Employee Self-Service (ESS) at www.nyc.gov/ess All Others: Log into your OASys account at www.nyc.gov/examsforjobs , navigate to your Dashboard, and update your Profile page. CHANGE OF NAME AND/OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER: To change your name and/or social security number with DCAS, use the Data Correction Form and follow all instructions provided. You can access the DCAS Data Correction Form at the following link: https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/employment/dp148a.pdf . THE TEST RESULTS: If you pass the Education and Experience Exam, your name will be placed on eligible list in final score order. You will receive a list number and be notified of your test results via email. This eligible list determines the order of candidates considered for appointment, usually active for four years. For more information about the civil service system, visit: https://www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/employment/more-about-civil-service.page . If you believe your test was rated incorrectly, you can appeal your score to DCAS, Committee on Manifest Errors, using the Online Application System (OASys). Your appeal must clearly state the reasons for requesting a higher score and may result in a different rating. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: Selective Certification for Special Experience, Certification and/or License: If you have the experience, certification, and/or license listed in one or more of the areas listed below, you may be considered for appointment to positions requiring this experience, certification, and/or license through a process called Selective Certification. If you qualify for Selective Certification, you may be given preferred consideration for positions requiring this experience, certification, and/or license. If you wish to apply for Selective Certification, follow the onscreen instructions when completing your Education and Experience Exam to indicate your interest in such Selective Certification and Final Submit it in OASys. Your experience, certification, and/or license will be checked by the appointing agency at the time of appointment. The certificates must be maintained for the duration of your employment. Selective Certification for Class A Commercial Driver License with Towing Endorsement (CLT): Possession of a Class A Commercial Driver License with Towing Endorsement that is valid in the State of New York. If you are appointed through Selective Certification, you must maintain your Class A Commercial Driver License with Towing Endorsement for the duration of your employment. Selective Certification for Class B Commercial Driver License with Air Brakes Endorsement (CBB): Possession of a Class B Commercial Driver License with Air Brakes Endorsement that is valid in the State of New York. If you are appointed through Selective Certification, you must maintain your Class B Commercial Driver License with Air Brakes Endorsement for the duration of your employment. Drug Screening Requirement: Candidates who are considered for appointment to positions through the above Selective Certifications must pass a drug screening in order to be appointed. If appointed through Selective Certification, you will be subject to drug and alcohol testing for the duration of your employment. Selective Certification for New York State Certification as a Motor Vehicle Inspector (MVI): Possession of a New York State Certification as a Motor Vehicle Inspector certified in Light Vehicles, Group 1 and New York State Certification as a Motor Vehicle Inspector certified in Heavy Vehicles, Group 2 . If you are appointed through Selective Certification, you must maintain your certifications for the duration of your employment. Selective Certification for Municipal Government Experience (MGE): At least one (1) year of satisfactory, full-time experience working within a municipal government in a similar position, which provides services for a city with over 1 million in population. Selective Certification for Federal Government Experience (FGE): At least one (1) year of satisfactory, full-time experience working within the federal government of the United States in a similar position. Selective Certification for AmeriCorps (AMC): Successful completion of at least ten (10) months of satisfactory, full-time experience as a NYC Service AmeriCorps member at a City agency or non-profit organization, which includes 100+ hours of workforce preparedness trainings. Selective Certification for Civil Service Pathways Fellowship (FEL): Successful completion of at least one (1) year of the Civil Service Pathways Fellowship program. The above Selective Certification requirements may be met at any time during the duration of the list. If you meet the Selective Certification requirement at some future date, please submit a request by contacting DCAS via the following link: nyc.gov/CivilServiceNowNYC using the "Selective Certification" subject. Please include the examination title and number, your full name, OASys Profile ID number, and the Selective Certifcation(s) you are requesting in your submission. Translation Notice: This document is provided in English. Solely for convenience, Google Translate is offered to provide machine-generated translations to other languages. The New York City Department of Citywide Administrative Services (DCAS) makes no representations or warranties, express or implied, regarding the accuracy, completeness, or reliability of any machine-generated translation and shall not be liable for any errors or omissions arising from the use of such translations. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the translated version and the English version, the English version will control and prevail. READ CAREFULLY AND SAVE FOR FUTURE REFERENCE The General Examination Regulations of the Department of Citywide Administrative Services (DCAS) apply to this examination and are part of this Notice of Examination. They are posted at nyc.gov/dcas and copies are available at the DCAS Computer-based Testing & Application Centers. The City of New York is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Title Code No. 92508; Miscellaneous Occupational Group. For information about other exams, and your exam or list status, call 212-669-1357. Internet: nyc.gov/dcas Translation Notice This translation is provided by Google Translate and may not be 100% accurate. Please review accordingly. I Understand Loading... Translating content, please wait...
