7311, 7312, 7313, 7314, 7315, 7316, 7317, 7318, 7319, 7320, 7321, and 7322 POLICE OFFICER Just a friendly reminder: the translation may not be perfectly accurate. We recommend giving it a quick review. Thank you! ZOHRAN KWAME MAMDANI Mayor DEPARTMENT OF CITYWIDE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES BUREAU OF EXAMINATIONS YUME KITASEI Commissioner NOTICE OF EXAMINATION POLICE OFFICER Exam No. 7311, 7312, 7313, 7314, 7315, 7316, 7317, 7318, 7319, 7320, 7321, and 7322 When To Apply: From: July 1, 2026 To: June 14, 2027 Application Fee: $0.00 When applying, select "No Fee" as your payment method. APPLICATION, SCHEDULING, AND TESTING PERIOD: Exam No . Application & Scheduling Period Testing Period 7311 July 1, 2026 - July 14, 2026 August 3, 2026 - August 8, 2026 7312 August 3, 2026 - August 17, 2026 September 1, 2026 - September 4, 2026 7313 September 1, 2026 - September 14, 2026 October 5, 2026 - October 9, 2026 7314 October 1, 2026 - October 14, 2026 November 2, 2026 - November 7, 2026 7315 November 2, 2026 - November 16, 2026 December 1, 2026 - December 5, 2026 7316 December 1, 2026 - December 14, 2026 January 4, 2027 - January 9, 2027 7317 January 4, 2027 - January 19, 2027 February 1, 2027 - February 6, 2027 7318 February 1, 2027 - February 16, 2027 March 1, 2027 - March 6, 2027 7319 March 1, 2027 - March 15, 2027 April 5, 2027 - April 10, 2027 7320 April 1, 2027 - April 14, 2027 May 3, 2027 - May 8, 2027 7321 May 3, 2027 - May 17, 2027 June 1, 2027 - June 5, 2027 7322 June 1, 2027 - June 14, 2027 July 5, 2027 - July 9, 2027 YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR READING THIS ENTIRE NOTICE BEFORE YOU SUBMIT YOUR APPLICATION. WHAT THE JOB INVOLVES: Police Officers perform general police duties and related work in the New York City Police Department including connecting and building relationships with the community. They patrol an assigned area on foot or in a vehicle to prevent crime; apprehend crime suspects; intervene in various situations involving crimes in progress, aided cases, complaints, emotionally disturbed persons, etc.; respond to and investigate vehicular accidents; investigate specific offenses; interact with prisoners; operate and maintain patrol vehicles; issue summonses; obtain information regarding incidents by interviewing witnesses, victims, and/or complainants; safeguard and voucher found, seized or recovered property; provide information to the public; handle situations involving maltreated, abused, or missing children; interact with juveniles; may be assigned to crowd control for large-scale events such as demonstrations, rallies and parades; prepare forms and reports; and testify in court. All Police Officers perform related work. Special Working Conditions: Police Officers will be required to work various shifts including nights, Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, and to work rotating tours, change tours or work overtime when ordered, as permitted by the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Some of the physical activities performed by Police Officers and environmental conditions experienced are: working outdoors in all kinds of weather; walking and/or standing in an assigned area during a tour while remaining alert; driving or sitting in a patrol car during a tour while remaining alert; running after a fleeing suspect; climbing up stairs; carrying an injured adult with assistance; gripping persons to prevent escape restraining a suspect by use of handcuffs; detecting odors such as those caused by smoke or gas leaks; engaging in hand to hand struggles to subdue a suspect resisting arrest; being physically active for prolonged periods of time; understanding verbal communication over the radio with background noise; reading and writing under low light conditions; carrying or wearing heavy equipment; and wearing a bullet resistant vest. (This is a brief description of what you might do in this position and does not include all the duties of this position.) THE SALARY: The current minimum salary is $55,942 per annum. Incumbents will receive salary increments reaching $109,352 per annum at the completion of five and one-half years employment. This rate is subject to change. In addition, there is an annual uniform allowance, holiday pay, and contributions by the City to Welfare and Annuity Funds and City-paid health insurance. Employees also receive a 2.25% differential (of base salary) for neighborhood policing. This rate is subject to change. HOW TO QUALIFY: You will be given the test before we verify your qualifications. You are responsible for determining whether or not you meet the education and experience requirements for this examination prior to submitting your application. If you are found "Not Qualified," your application fee will not be refunded, and you will not receive a score. (For more information see Exam Site Admission section.) EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS: By the date of appointment, you must have a four-year high school diploma or its educational equivalent, and successfully completed 24 college semester credits at an accredited college or university with at least a 2.0 cumulative index or its equivalent, or have completed two years of honorable full-time U.S. military service The high school diploma or its educational equivalent must be approved by a State's Department of Education or a recognized accrediting organization. The college or university must be accredited by regional, national, professional, or specialized agencies recognized as accrediting bodies by the U.S. Secretary of Education and by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA). If you were educated outside the United States, you must have your foreign education evaluated to determine its equivalence to education obtained in the United States. You will receive instructions from the Police Department during the pre-employment screening process regarding the approved evaluation services that you may use for foreign education. Age Requirement: You must be at least 17 years of age by the date you take the multiple-choice test to be permitted to take this examination. You must have attained age 20 years and 6 months to be appointed as a Police Officer. If you are too young for appointment on the date the eligible list is terminated, you will have no further opportunity for appointment from the list. Only persons who are less than 35 years of age on the first date of the application period for this examination may be appointed as a Police Officer. Thus, you must not have reached your 35th birthday by the first date of the application for the examination to be appointed as a Police Officer. Exceptions to Age Requirements: If you were engaged in military duty as defined in Section 243 of the New York Military Law, you may deduct from your actual age the length of time spent in such military duty, provided the total deduction for military duty does not exceed seven years. Character and Background: Proof of good character and satisfactory background will be absolute prerequisites to appointment. The following are among the factors which would ordinarily be cause for disqualification: (a) arrest record or conviction of an offense, the nature of which indicates lack of good moral character or disposition towards violence or disorder; (b) repeated arrests or convictions of an offense, where such convictions or arrests indicate a disrespect for the law; (c) discharge from employment, where such discharge indicates poor behavior or an inability to adjust to discipline; (d) dishonorable discharge from the Armed Forces; and (e) conviction of petit larceny. In accordance with provisions of law, persons convicted of a felony or domestic violence misdemeanor are not eligible for appointment to the title of Police Officer. Driver License Requirement : On the date of appointment as a Police Officer, you must possess a valid unrestricted New York State Motor Vehicle Driver License. You must maintain this license for the duration of your employment. Medical and Psychological Assessment: Medical and psychological guidelines have been established for the position of Police Officer. You will be examined to determine whether you can perform the essential functions of a Police Officer. Additionally, you will be expected to continue to perform the essential functions of a Police Officer throughout your career, and may, therefore, be medically and psychologically tested periodically throughout your career. Where appropriate, a reasonable accommodation will be provided for a person with a disability to enable him or her to take these medical and psychological examinations, and/or to perform the essential functions of the job. Physical Testing: Physical standards have been established for the position of Police Officer. You will be required to pass a qualifying physical test and may be required to undergo periodic physical testing throughout your career. Drug Testing: You must pass a drug screening prior to appointment as part of a pre- employment process, and you will be subject to drug testing during Police Academy Training and as part of the medical examination at the end of probation. You may again be drug tested on a random basis after your probationary period is completed or as a prerequisite for assignment or promotion. Any member of the NYC Police Department found in possession of or using illegal drugs, or who fails, refuses, or attempts to evade a drug test, will be terminated. The NYC Police Department has a strict zero tolerance policy concerning illegal drug use. Individuals who are considering applying for positions in the NYC Police Department are expected to conform their behavior to this policy well before they begin the application process. Residency Requirement Advisory: The New York State Public Officers Law requires that any person employed as a Police Officer in the New York City Police Department must be a resident of the City of New York or of Nassau, Westchester, Suffolk, Orange, Rockland, or Putnam counties. Citizenship Requirement: United States citizenship is required at the time of appointment as a Police Officer. English Requirement: You must be able to understand and be understood in English. Proof of Identity: Under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, you must be able to prove your identity and your right to obtain employment in the United States prior to employment with an agency under the jurisdiction of the Commissioner, Department of Citywide Administrative Services. HOW TO APPLY: Apply through the Online Application System (OASys) at www.nyc.gov/examsforjobs . Follow the onscreen application instructions to submit your application and payment. A valid email address is required. Free email accounts are available from Google, Yahoo!, AOL, Outlook.com, or Mail.com. New OASys accounts must be verified to confirm your email address is valid and that you have access to the email account. You will receive a confirmation email from OASys to confirm your account upon registering for your OASys account. If any issues arise, contact DCAS at nyc.gov/CivilServiceNowNYC and select the applicable subject. If you do not receive the confirmation email, check your spam or junk mail folder before contacting DCAS. You can pay with major credit cards, bank cards, or prepaid debit cards with a credit card logo. Veterans and individuals receiving certain public assistance may qualify for a fee waiver. For more information on eligibility and required documentation, visit the Fee Waiver FAQs on OASys at https://a856-exams.nyc.gov/OASysWeb/faqs . You may come to the DCAS Computer-based Testing & Application Centers to apply for this examination online. The centers will be open Monday through Friday from 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM: Manhattan Brooklyn Queens 2 Lafayette Street 210 Joralemon Street 118-35 Queens Boulevard 17th Floor 4th Floor 5th Floor New York, NY 10007 Brooklyn, NY 11201 Forest Hills, NY 11375 Staten Island Bronx 135 Canal Street 1932 Arthur Avenue 3rd Floor 2nd Floor Staten Island, NY 10304 Bronx, NY 10457 The DCAS Computer-based Testing & Application Centers will be closed on Friday, July 3, 2026; Monday, September 7, 2026; Monday, October 12, 2026; Tuesday, November 3, 2026; Wednesday, November 11, 2026; Thursday, November 26, 2026; Friday, December 25, 2026. Application Receipt: After applying for the examination through the Online Application System (OASys), expect an immediate receipt via email. If you don't see it, be sure to check your Junk, Trash, or Spam folders. Alternatively, you can view a summary of your application status on your OASys Dashboard under "Notifications." If you still can't find the email, contact DCAS at nyc.gov/CivilServiceNowNYC and select the applicable subject. Include your exam number and profile number for easier identification. Also, verify that your email address in your profile is accurate and up to date. Finally, add OASys@dcas.nyc.gov to your known senders to ensure you receive all important communications. Special Circumstances Guide: This Guide provides instructions for requesting alternate test dates for religious observances, how to apply for disability accommodations, Legacy credit, and address changes. Following the relevant instructions in the guide is crucial when filling out the "Application for Examination." Guide Link: https://www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/employment/nyc-dcas-special-circumstancesguide.pdf Civil Service Guidance for Veterans: There are a range of benefits available to eligible veterans in their civil service careers. Specifically, veterans and disabled veterans may be eligible for application fee waivers, preference credits, make-up exams, retroactive seniority, and age deduction where the exam has maximum age requirements. Review the Civil Service Guidance for Veterans at: https://www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/employment/faqs-for-veterans.pdf PENALTY FOR MISREPRESENTATION: Any intentional misrepresentation on the application or examination may result in disqualification, even after appointment, and may result in criminal prosecution. REQUIRED INFORMATION: Application for Examination: Follow the online instructions, including those relating to the payment of fee and, if applicable, those found in the Special Circumstances Guide. THE TEST: The multiple-choice test will be given at a computer terminal. Your score on this test will be used to determine your place on an eligible list. You must achieve a score of at least 70% to pass the test. The multiple-choice test is designed to assess the extent to which candidates have certain abilities determined to be important to the performance of the tasks of a Police Officer. The multiple-choice test may include questions requiring the use of any of the following abilities: Deductive Reasoning: applying general rules to specific problems and coming up with logical answers. It involves deciding if an answer makes sense. Example : this ability may be used by a Police Officer when determining the appropriate dispatch code based on the situation. Inductive Reasoning: combining separate pieces of information, or specific answers to problems, to form general rules or conclusions. It involves the ability to think of possible reasons for why things go together. Example : this ability may be used by a Police Officer when investigating specific offenses. Information Ordering: following correctly a rule or set of rules or actions in a certain order. The rule or set of rules used must be given. The things or actions to be put in order can include numbers, letters, words, pictures, procedures, sentences, and mathematical or logical operations. Example : this ability may be used by a Police Officer when storing found, seized, or recovered property. Memorization: remembering information such as words, numbers, pictures, and procedures. Pieces of information can be remembered by themselves or with other pieces of information. Example : this ability may be used by a Police Officer when searching for individuals who are wanted for questioning after being presented with an image and description of the individual. Problem Sensitivity: being able to tell when something is wrong or is likely to go wrong. It includes being able to identify the whole problem as well as elements of the problem. Example : this ability may be used by a Police Officer when apprehending crime suspects or working with crime victims. Spatial Orientation: determining where you are in relation to the location of some object or where the object is in relation to you. Example : this ability may be used by a Police Officer when navigating throughout their assigned precinct while on foot or in a vehicle. Visualization: imagining how something would look when it is moved around or when its parts are moved or rearranged. It requires the forming of mental images of how patterns or objects would look after certain changes, such as unfolding or rotation. One has to predict how an object, set of objects, or pattern will appear after the changes have been carried out. Example : this ability may be used by a Police Officer while searching for individuals who are wanted for arrest or questioning when attempting to identify such individuals who are believed to have changed their appearance. Written Comprehension: understanding sentences and paragraphs written in English. Example : this ability may be used by a Police Officer when reading policies, laws, and other legal documents, as well as reading traffic signs, traffic violation summonses, etc. Written Expression: using English words or sentences in writing so that others will understand. Example : this ability may be used by a Police Officer when recording information in a memo book or other report(s). Certain questions may need to be answered on the basis of documents or other information supplied to the candidates on the date of the multiple-choice exam. VETERANS' PREFERENCE CREDITS AND LEGACY CREDITS: The New York State Civil Service Law provides that additional points can be added to the final score of a candidate who is, or by the date of appointment expects to be, an honorably discharged veteran or disabled veteran of the Armed Forces of the United States; and/or a candidate whose parent or sibling has died while engaged in the discharge of his or her duties as a Police Officer, Firefighter, Emergency Medical Technician, or Paramedic, including as a result of the September 11, 2001 World Trade Center attack or participation that took place in response to the attack. To be eligible for any of these credits, a candidate must achieve a passing score on the examination. Claims for Veterans' Preference Credits or Legacy Credits cannot be made once the eligible list is established. This is only an overview; specific conditions and instructions for requesting Veterans Preference Credits and/or Legacy Credits and additional information are indicated in the Civil Service Guidance for Veterans and Special Circumstances Guide. NEW YORK CITY RESIDENCY CREDIT: Ten points will be added to the multiple-choice test score of those candidates who qualify for New York City Residency Credit. To be eligible for the residency credit, you must have achieved a passing score on the multiple-choice test and must maintain a continuous period of residency in New York City from the date of the multiple-choice test through the date the eligible list is established. You must apply by following the instructions on the date of the multiple-choice test. Merely supplying a New York City address on the Application for this examination does not serve as a request for residency credit. Requests for residency credit cannot be accepted after the eligible list is established. Eligibility for the residency credit will be investigated. As in the case of any intentional misrepresentation of a material fact on an employment application, candidates who claim residency credit and who are determined to have intentionally misrepresented facts concerning City residency shall be disqualified and their names shall be removed from the eligible list, and they may be subject to criminal sanction. Please be advised that Veterans or active service members of the US Armed Forces, whose DD-214 or other military service records list their Home of Record at the time of entry into active duty as an address within one of the five boroughs—Bronx, Brooklyn, Manhattan, Queens, or Staten Island—may now qualify for NYC Residency Credit. It is important that this Home of Record was established before the candidate applied for the examination. EXAM SITE ADMISSION: Warning: The use of electronic devices at the test site is prohibited. This includes phones, smart watches, cameras, e-cigarettes, vape pens and/or other portable media or electronic devices. Any such items brought to the test site will be placed in a Yondr pouch and magnetically sealed until after the exam event (Examination, Protest Review Session, TVB session). The use of headphones and earbuds are also prohibited. The use of calculators are not permitted on this exam. Devices with keyboards, word processing, or data recording capabilities are banned and will be placed in a Yondr pouch if brought to the testing site. If you use any of these prohibited devices, or remove them from your Yondr pouch before being authorized to do so, whether in the testing area, restroom, hallway, or other location at the test site, at any time before, during or after the exam event, your test score will be nullified, you will be disqualified from taking any civil service tests for up to five years, and your application fee will not be refunded. You are also not permitted to use on site any medical assistive devices, including those that give notifications or alerts, or that vibrate, without the prior express written authorization of DCAS. You can contact DCAS by email at: testingaccommodations@dcas.nyc.gov. You may not have any other person, including children, present with you while you are being processed for or taking the test, and no one may wait for you inside of a Computer-based Testing & Application Center while you are taking the test. Required Identification : You are required to bring one (1) form of valid (non-expired) signature and photo bearing identification to the test site. The name that was used to apply for the exam must match the first and last name on the photo ID. A list of acceptable identification documents is provided below. If you do not have an acceptable ID, you may be denied testing. Acceptable forms of identification (bring one) are as follows: State issued driver's license, City or State issued identification card, IDNYC, US Government issued Passport, US Government issued Military Identification Card, US Government issued Alien Registration Card, Employer ID with photo, or Student ID with photo. Leaving : You must leave the test site once you finish the test. If you leave the test site after being fingerprinted but before finishing the test, you will not be permitted to re-enter. If you disregard this instruction and re-enter the test site, you may not receive your test results, your test score may be nullified, and your application fee will not be refunded. CHANGE OF MAILING ADDRESS, EMAIL ADDRESS, AND/OR TELEPHONE NUMBER: It is essential to promptly notify DCAS of any changes to your mailing address, email address, or phone number. Without your correct contact information, you may miss important updates regarding your exam(s), appointment considerations, or critical information that requires a timely response. To update your contact information, follow these steps: City Employees: update your information in NYCAPS Employee Self-Service (ESS) at www.nyc.gov/ess All Others: Log into your OASys account at www.nyc.gov/examsforjobs , navigate to your Dashboard, and update your Profile page. CHANGE OF NAME AND/OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER: Use the Data Correction Form and follow all instructions for changing your name and/or social security number with DCAS. The following link will provide you with the DCAS Data Correction Form: https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/employment/dp148a.pdf. THE TEST RESULTS: If you pass the multiple-choice test, your name will be placed on an eligible list in final score order. You will receive a list number and be notified of your test results via email. This eligible list determines the order of candidates considered for appointment, usually active for four years. For more information about the civil service system, visit: https://www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/employment/more-about-civil-service.page . If you believe your test was rated incorrectly, you can appeal your score to DCAS, Committee on Manifest Errors, using the Online Application System (OASys). Your appeal must clearly state the reasons for requesting a higher score and may result in a different rating. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: Promotion Opportunities : Police Officers are accorded the opportunity to be promoted to the title of Sergeant after passing a civil service examination and are also accorded an opportunity to be designated Detective. Currently educational requirements for promotion to successive ranks are: (1) Sergeant - satisfactory completion of two years (64 credits) of course work or an associate degree at an accredited college or university; (2) Lieutenant - satisfactory completion of three years (96 credits) of course work at an accredited college or university; (3) Captain - attainment of a baccalaureate degree from an accredited college or university. College credits which are earned as a result of satisfactorily completing the Police Academy curriculum can be used towards meeting the educational requirements. Education requirements for promotion are subject to change. Selective Certification for Special Experience : If you have the experience listed in one or more of the areas below, you may be considered for appointment to positions requiring this experience through a process called Selective Certification. If you qualify for Selective Certification, you may be given preferred consideration for positions requiring this experience. Follow the instructions given to you on the day of the multiple-choice test to indicate your interest in such Selective Certification. Municipal Government Experience (MGE) : At least one (1) year of satisfactory, full-time experience working within a municipal government in a similar position, which provides services for a city with over 1 million in population. Federal Government Experience (FGE) : At least one (1) year of satisfactory, fulltime experience working within the federal government of the United States in a similar position. AmeriCorps (AMC) : Successful completion of at least ten (10) months of satisfactory, full-time experience as a NYC Service AmeriCorps member at a City agency or non-profit organization, which includes 100+ hours of workforce preparedness trainings. Civil Service Pathways Fellowship (FEL) : Successful completion of at least one (1) year of the Civil Service Pathways Fellowship program. Selective Certification for Foreign Language : If you can speak a foreign language, you may be considered for appointment to positions requiring this ability through a process called Selective Certification. If you pass a qualifying test, you may be given preferred consideration for positions requiring this ability. Follow the instructions given to you on the day of the multiple-choice test to indicate your interest in such Selective Certification. The above Selective Certification requirements may be met at any time during the duration of the list . If you meet the Selective Certification requirement at some future date, please submit a request by contacting DCAS via the following link: nyc.gov/CivilServiceNowNYC using the "Selective Certification" subject. Please include the examination title and number, your full name, OASys Profile ID number, and the selective certification(s) you are requesting in your submission. Investigation: The position is subject to investigation before appointment. At the time of investigation, you will be required to pay a $75.00 fee for fingerprint screening. At the time of investigation and at the time of appointment, you must present originals or certified copies of all required documents and proof, including but not limited to proof of date and place of birth by transcript, or other satisfactory evidence, naturalization papers, if necessary, proof of any military service, and proof of meeting educational and experiential requirements, if applicable. You may be disqualified if your statements are found to be false, exaggerated, or misleading or if you fail to provide required documents. Investigation must be completed prior to appointment. Firearms Qualification: You must qualify and remain qualified for firearms usage and possession as a condition of employment for the duration of your career. The ability to qualify, and remain qualified, in the use of firearms, is essential for Police Service positions. Firearms qualification tests will be administered semiannually. Failure to qualify and remain qualified for firearms usage and possession may result in termination. Probationary Period: The probationary period for this title is 24 months. Among other requirements, you will be required to pass the Police Academy firearms, academic, physical performance, and driving tests, and meet disciplinary and performance standards throughout the probationary period. The probationary period may be extended pursuant to New York Civil Service Law and the Personnel Rules and Regulations of the City of New York. Promotion Test: Promotion examinations for this title are regularly held for eligible New York City Police Department employees. The names appearing on any existing promotion list will be considered first in filling vacancies. However, it is expected that there will be sufficient positions available for use of the eligible list resulting from this examination. Police Academy Physical Assessment: Candidates who enter the Police Academy will be required to complete a physical test prior to graduating the academy. The physical test may include tests such as completing a 1 1/2 mile run in a specified period of time. Special Test Accommodations: If you plan to request special testing accommodations due to disability, you must notify Administration, Customer, and Exam Support by email at testingaccomodations@dcas.nyc.gov or by fax at (212) 313- 3241. Refer to the Special Circumstances Guide at https://www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/employment/nyc-dcas-special-circumstances-guide.pdf for information on what to include in your request. Your request must be received at least thirty (30) days before the date of your test. Translation Notice: This document is provided in English. Solely for convenience, Google Translate is offered to provide machine-generated translations to other languages. The New York City Department of Citywide Administrative Services (DCAS) makes no representations or warranties, express or implied, regarding the accuracy, completeness, or reliability of any machine-generated translation and shall not be liable for any errors or omissions arising from the use of such translations. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the translated version and the English version, the English version will control and prevail. READ CAREFULLY AND SAVE FOR FUTURE REFERENCE The General Examination Regulations of the Department of Citywide Administrative Services (DCAS) apply to this examination and are part of this Notice of Examination. They are posted at nyc.gov/dcas and copies are available at the DCAS Computer-based Testing & Application Centers. The City of New York is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Title Code No. 70210; Police Service. For information about other exams, and your exam or list status, call 212-669-1357. Internet: nyc.gov/dcas Translation Notice This translation is provided by Google Translate and may not be 100% accurate. Please review accordingly. I Understand Loading... Translating content, please wait...
